# MSCC_TermProject
The project aims to develop ‘smart’ transportation system for the ‘smart’ city of future using the mobile sensor cloud approach. We plan to mount physical GPS sensors on public transportation vehicles on every major routes and use them as our bare metal infrastructure. Our project would be an IaaS for GPS sensors. 

During the development of the project, we have decided to not use real GPS sensors, instead we decided to model them using software (cost of physical devices being one of the major factor for the decision). What we call backend, is a real time in-memory resource pool aggregator. Where resources are Physical GPS sensor modelled by software, Virtual GPS sensor modelled by software, etc. 
Following are its key features:
1.Management of a resource pool of GPS physical sensors, virtual sensors and hypervisors.
2.Use of database to persists its in-memory state, for cross session operations. 
3.Support for a verbose set of APIs, which allows clients (other components) to manage it in very fine grained manner.
4.GPS data generation for virtual sensors. The GPS data is generated by the GPSDataGenerationModel that backs each physical sensor. 
5.Robust UI (pure client of the API), which provides an easy way to manage the Resource Pool.

The component exposes an API which other components can consume and utilize to manage the in-memory model of the Resource Pool (viz. the lifecycle of physical sensors, virtual sensors, and their power states). Additionally, the API also exposes a way for its clients to extract location data from virtual sensors. Following is the list of all APIs and their respective functions:
1.Add Physical Sensor – adds a physical sensor to the resource pool. Takes in input like vendor name, power status, capacity and return backs the id of the physical sensor thus created.
2.Get Vendor- returns the vendor name of a particular physical sensors identified by its id (input).
3.Get Physical Sensor Power State- returns the power state of a particular physical sensors identified by its id (input).
4.Get Physical Sensor Capacity- returns the maximum number of virtual sensors that a particular physical sensors identified by its id (input) can host
5.Get Physical Sensor Available Capacity- returns the number of additional virtual sensor that a particular physical sensor can host, identified by its id (input).
6.Get GPS Generation Model – since we are modelling the physical and virtual sensors, to generate the location data we have to use a model internal to these classes. GPS data generation model is used to programmatically generate location data. This API returns the aforementioned model internal to a physical sensor identified by id (input).
7.Set GPS Generation Model – sets or updates the GPS data generation model internal to a physical sensor identified by id (input)
8.Turn On Physical Sensor - changes the power state of a physical sensor identified by id (input) from “off” to “idle” or “on” 
9.Turn Off Physical Sensor - changes the power state of a physical sensor identified by id (input) from “on” or “idle” to “off”
10.Discard/Delete Physical Sensor – removes the physical sensor identified by id (input) and its associated virtual sensors from the resource pool.
11.Deploy/Create Virtual Sensor on a Physical Sensor - adds a virtual sensor to the resource pool. Takes in input like vendor name and id of the physical sensor and return backs the id of the virtual sensor thus created.
12.Get Vendor name of the Virtual Sensor - returns the vendor name of a particular virtual sensors identified by its id (input).
13.Get Power Status of the Virtual Sensor - returns the power state of a particular physical sensors identified by its id (input).
14.Turn on Virtual Sensor - changes the power state of a virtual sensor identified by id (input) from “off” to “on” 
15.Turn off virtual Sensor - changes the power state of a virtual sensor identified by id (input) from “on to “off” 
16.Un-deploy/Delete Virtual Sensor- – removes the virtual sensor identified by id (input) from the resource pool.
17.Get all physical Sensor ids – returns ids of all physical sensors that are present in the resource pool
18.Get all virtual sensor ids associated with a Physical Sensor - returns ids of all virtual sensors that are associated a particular physical sensor identified by Id (input).
19.Get all virtual sensor ids - returns ids of all virtual sensors that are present in the resource pool
20.Get GPS data of the Virtual Sensor – returns the location data of the virtual sensor by extracting the location data of the associated physical sensor.


